---
title:  "Basis"
header:
  teaser: /assets/images/linear_combination.png
---
{% include mathjax.html %}

A set of elements(vectors) in a vector space V is called a basis, or a set of basis vectors, if they are linearly independent and every vector in the vector space is a linear combinations of this set.

Now let’s move to a related concept: the dimension of a vector space, which is defined as the size of the basis. Technically, this requires two details we’ll skate over for the time being: that every vector space has a basis, and that all finite bases of a vector space have the same size.

For instance, we’ve already seen that the dimension of  is . Let’s look at some other vector spaces now. To start, consider the vector space of  matrices. What is its dimension?
Now let’s switch tack to a different vector space: polynomials with degree at most 3, such as . These form a vector space (why?). What is the dimension of this space?

We’ve now seen a couple examples of how the dimension of a subspace is less than the dimension of the original space, which makes dimension a useful tool for thinking about the “size” of a vector space.

In fact, more is true: given a basis  for a subspace  of , we can extend the basis by adding more vectors to form a basis  of .

This becomes important when analyzing bases of subspaces, because we can pick a basis for the subspace, and then pick a basis for the larger space that is guaranteed to be a superset of the original basis.

In this chapter, we continued our explorations into bases, and also explored the related concept of dimension. As we saw, dimension is a very useful tool for analyzing both subspaces and “indirectly defined” vector spaces, such as the important relation
sets theoty
In the next chapter, we’ll move past our exploration of basis and dimension on to a different important concept: the dot product.
